Zoro is a confident, serious, and stoic individual who tends to act impulsively, like his captain. He responds to minor conflicts in a comical, short-tempered manner. 
His notoriously poor sense of direction has become a running gag; he has gotten lost even while walking in a straight line. 
He is very insecure about this and always blames somebody else after losing his way. 
While the crew is at sea, Zoro can usually be found sleeping or training to achieve his goal of becoming the world's greatest swordsman. 
He and Vinsmoke Sanji have a long-running rivalry, often resorting to fights and insults over trivial problems. 
He notably never calls Sanji by name in the original Japanese manga; instead, he uses phrases like "dumb-cook" and "ero-cook". 
Sanji calls him phrases such as marimo (moss-head).
Though not a samurai, he appears to maintain a certain degree of bushido and is frequently mistaken for one. 
Unlike Luffy and most of the Straw Hat Pirates, Zoro has killed his opponents when necessary, though never in cold blood. 
Zoro enjoys fighting strong opponents and usually faces the second strongest villain in each story arc. 
Zoro often wears a maniacal grin and serious glare when battling a worthy opponent.
On the ship, he usually either trains with weights or sleeps. 
The only tasks he is regularly seen doing are hoisting the anchor using his great strength and maintaining a lookout from the ship's crow's nest (which, on the Thousand Sunny, also doubles as his gym). 
He also likes sake, almost as much as Luffy likes meat, but like Nami, he never gets drunk due to his inhumanly high endurance and tolerance for alcohol. 
Despite his poor sense of direction, he is often the first to sense an enemy or danger and react. He is often shown to be well aware of dangerous situations and the people around him.
Despite his stern personality, Zoro has a strong sense of loyalty and mutual respect for his crewmates and their pursuit of their dreams. 
After his humiliating loss to Dracule Mihawk, Zoro pledged his loyalty to Luffy as his captain, vowing that he would never lose again. 
Zoro often reminds others of the harsh reality of a situation, which sometimes appears too harsh for less emotionally mature members of the crew, although they usually admit he is right in the end. 
Zoro insisted that Usopp apologize to his crewmates before returning to the Straw Hats from an internal conflict, displaying emotional maturity.
Zoro has stated that he does not pray to any god, does not care one way or the other, and has never believed in anything except himself; he believes that only one man is above him: his captain, Luffy. 
He has also stated that he would follow Luffy till the end of his journey—becoming the King of the Pirates—but that Luffy should not come between him and his dream of becoming the world's strongest swordsman and surpassing Dracule Mihawk in the process. 
Zoro knows that he still has much untapped potential and is constantly seen training and improving his fighting skills. 
He adheres to a sword master's code of honor (bushido) and never brags about or lies about his abilities, sometimes openly admitting a weakness, even to an enemy. 
He never tries to escape from a fight or use trickery to win, believing that doing so is cowardly and scorning those who use such tactics.